Let's face it.
Reaching your goals is rarely easy.
Goals by their very nature are difficult to achieve.
And if you're not setting them in the right way,
they can start to feel impossible.
So, how do you set goals that actually work?
The method you use matters.
To succeed you need to follow a process and align your goals
with the SMART acronym.
Let's start with the goal-setting process.
The first step is to get your ideas on paper,
by writing down large scale goals.
During this stage, consider what you'd like to achieve,
create, have, experience, or give.
Then, pick your top goal from the list.
Which objective means the most to you right now?
The best goals are self-motivating.
So, put aside what others want from you
and focus on what you want.
Once you have that top goal,
break it down by setting smaller milestones.
By mapping out those checkpoints, your goal will start
to feel more realistic.
Next, right up the steps it will take to reach
each of those smaller milestones.
This is your chance to come up with specific
play by play directions.
Finally, schedule ongoing process reviews.
Goal-setting is an ongoing activity,
to stay on track you'll need to continually review
your process.
Notice what's working and what isn't
and make adjustments as needed.
When following the goal-setting process,
you'll also need to ensure that you're creating
a powerful goal rooted in reality.
The best goals are SMART, which stands for
specific, measurable, attainable, relevant,
and time-bound.
Let's break that SMART acronym down.
First specific goals are well-defined.
They offer sufficient direction as to where exactly
you want to go.
The more details the better.
Measurable goals are ones that you can track.
They use quantifiable benchmarks, such as dates and amounts.
Instead of I want to start meditating, they say,
I want to meditate for 15 minutes every day.
Attainable goals are ones you can realistically achieve.
They're challenging, but not impossible.
They answer yes to questions such as,
do I have enough resources, time, and funds
to make this happen?
Relevant goals are ones that means something to you.
They are relevant to your ambitions,
and that makes them worthwhile.
Finally, time-bound goals have a deadline.
They create internal pressure
by following a strict timeframe and target due date.
Not all goals are created equal.
The more thought and time you put into setting your goals,
the more likely you are to follow through with them later.
So, if you have an ambition, take the time to turn it
into a goal.
Follow that five step process, and then boost your chances
of success by keeping that goal SMART.
Soon, those sky high ambitions won't seem so out of reach.